Quantum computing has been a hot topic in computer science for the past couple of decades.
Many people speculate that the invention of the Quantum Computer will change the paradigm of cybersecurity and how we approach problems, but what exactly is a Quantum Computer and how does it differ from a traditional computer?

Traditional computers use bits in order to store and transfer information.
A bit can be either on or off, 1 or 0.
Quantum computers contain traditional bits like any other computer, but they also use a new type of bit: the quantum bit, or qubit.

Quantum bits are encoded into the electrons of an atom instead of in a copper wire.
Qubits make use of a property of electrons called electron spin.
Electron spin describes how an electron is spinning around it's axis.
Without going into much detail, the electron spin can be described in terms of it's orientation.
The electron is typically either spinning up or spinning down.

In order to encode data into these electrons, we must be able to control their state.
Due to the large amount of energy an electron has, the spin direction is constantly changing.
To solve this, Quantum Computers are cooled down to a temperature such that the electron slows down and keeps its spin state consistently at the down state.
When the qubit receives enough energy, it will change to the spin up state.
To flip a qubit up or down, quantum computers utilize a strong magnetic field to apply energy to the electron.  
If we need the qubit to be in the spin down state, we stop applying energy to the electron and it will naturally swap states.
Although this allows us to simulate a typical bit with a 1 or 0 state, this is no different from using a traditional bit.
So what makes quantum bits special?

Quantum entanglement is the quantum bit's biggest strength
Quantum entanglement describes a phenomenon in which the quantum state of two particles cannot be described independently of the state of the other.
In essence, the two particles share quantum information, no matter how far the two particles are away from each other. 
The quantum computer stores data in the quantum information of particles, so the entanglement of two qubits allows us to interact with data in new ways.

In order to understand how to entangle qubits or what their uses are, we must first understand how to build a program using qubits.
To build quantum programs, we can use a python-based library called Qiskit.
Qiskit, owned by IBM, enables programmers to create whats called Quantum circuits, which then can be run on either simulations of a quantum computer or physical quantum computers.
The quantum circuit can be said to be the quantum part of your program; the thing that is actually run on the quantum computer.

Let me show you a demonstration of a simple quantum circuit.
We will be building a simple quantum application using qiskit and running it on IBM's quantum assembly simulator.
The circuit that we will be building is this circuit which simply demonstrates some of the capabilities of the quantum computer.
This circuit uses a Hadamard gates and a Controlled X gate in order to create whats called a Bell state.
A Bell State is the simplest form of quantum entanglement and can be demonstrated in a very straightforward way.

[code demonstration]

[analyze data]


I chose to implement the Bernstein Vazirani Algorithm for this project.
The Bernstein Vazirani Algorithm aims to solve the following question:
Say you have a function that asks you to guess a secret number that is N bits long.
You input your guess and it will tell you if your guess was right or wrong.
For an N-bit long number, a classical computer can solve this question in N tries with some creative optimization.
Using the Bernstein Vazirani Algorithm, quantum computers can solve this in 1 single try.
The quantum computer achieves this through quantum entanglement.
In order to solve the problem, all we need to do is entangle each bit of the secret number with a quantum bit and read the output.

So what does this all mean?
Using quantum entanglement, we can change the way we encrypt and save data.
Private keys and public keys will be adapted to use quantum technology.
We can create quantum entangled keys to be resistant to typical cyber attacks.
Old systems will be rendered vulnerable to attacks using modified versions of the Bernstein Vazirani Algorithm.
However, the future in which a quantum computer is in everyone's pocket is still far away.
Much research will be done into this technology, and developers who are eager to stay ahead of the curve will be valuable.
